Prepare release `2.7.0-alpha.0` (#4253)
open-formulieren/open-forms: CHANGELOG.rst

Changelog
=========

> 2.7.0-alpha.0 (2024-01-05)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.7.0-alpha.0 (2024-05-03)
```

==========================

This is an alpha release, meaning it is not finished yet or suitable for production use.

**New features**

Improved backend validation robustness, mainly by validating new components:

> * [#4035] Added an E2E test for the file component.

Reviewer: this belongs in project maintenance, this is not a visible feature for anyone

* [#72] Added validation for the following components: time, selectboxes, textarea, postcode, bsn, select, checkbox,

>   currency, signature, map, cosign, password, iban and licenseplate.

Reviewer: Let's rephrase as "Improved backend validation for ..."

> Other features:

Reviewer: The structure is:

```
Warnings
--------

(any upgrade notices, if relevant)

Detailed changes
----------------

**New features**

...

**Bugfixes**

...

**Project maintenance**

...

```

we always use the same sections/groups

* [#4031] Added a confirm popup when switching to v2 options.

> * [#4041] Improved API documents registration robustness, taking into account possible crashes when sending the documents.

Reviewer: Sometimes you can group things by theme, e.g.:

```rst
* Submission registration:

    * Added a warning for the Objects API registration configuratoin when switching back to the legacy configuration.
    * Improved robustness of document registration in the Documents API.
```

So, couple remarks here:

* commit messages are sometimes wrong, case in point here is that it wasn't v2 that got the popup, but v1
* avoid being too detailed/technical
* provide sufficient context so that people know about which part of OF a changelog entry is

Author: Arrgh, did it at first and then thought it wasn't worth grouping for two features

> * [#3969] Removed the ability to override LoA for eHekrenning/eIDAS.

Author: Probably more needs to be described for this one

Reviewer: Yep, something like:

> For eHerkenning/eIDAS authentication, the level of assurance can no longer be overridden. Brokers do not support this.

> * [#4009, #979] Removed read-only "Merged data" submission field in the admin (related to some internal code cleanup).

Reviewer: if it's internal code cleanup -> belongs in "Project maintenance"

You don't need to provide this reasoning either, instead you can rephrase it as:

> Improved the representation of submission data in the admin interface.

We got rid of the inconsistencies (and for us, from development perspective, it was a nice code cleanup, but customers don't give a damn about that)

* [#4005] Added the ability to search submission reports by public registration reference and submission in the admin.
* [#4005] Updated title of the PDF submission report to include the public registration reference.
* [#3725] Improved email digest by detecting more problems. This includes:

   - Submissions with failed registration status.

>    - Log failures.

Reviewer: the logs failed? failures are logged? what kind of failures, many parts of OF can fail

>    - Working configuration of the BRK client if the ``addressNL`` component is used.

Reviewer: you can shorten this adding a little more text in the main entry:

```rst
* Expanded email digest by detecting more problems in features actively used, such as:

    - missing or wrong BRK client configuration
```

etc.

>    - Working configuration of the BAG API if deriving street/city from postal code is used.

Reviewer: "Address autofill (based on postal code and house numer) misconfiguration" maybe?

>    - Form logic rules using fields that no longer exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Form logic rules referring to non-existant fields.
```
they may never have existed in the first place too :P

>    - Broken registration backends configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Invalid registration backends configuration.
```
slightly less negative tone :)

>    - ZGW services: credentials, expired certificates.

Reviewer: credentials sounds like API keys, but that's not checked. Instead:

```
Mutual TLS certificates/certificate pairs and (nearly) expired certificates.
```

> * [#3889] Added the ability to export log entries.

Reviewer: what kind of log entries?

> * [#4101] Removed "Show form" button in the admin, if form isn't active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#4101] The "Show form" button in the admin is now only displayed for active forms.
```

* [#4080] Added generation timestamp to PDF submission report.

> * [#4215] E-mails older than 90 days are now periodically deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#4215] Email logs older than 90 days are now periodically deleted.
```
we don't store the actual emails (in the sense of MTAs etc.), it's just some form of "logs"/queue system.

* [#3964] Toggling visibility with frontend logic and number/currency components leads to fields being emptied.
* [#4247] Fixed migration crash because of particular key-structure with repeating groups.

**Project maintenance**

* Cleaned up logging config: removed unused performance logging config, added tools to mute logging.
* Cleaned up structure of local setting overrides.
* [#4057] Upgraded to ``zgw-consumers`` 0.32.0. This drops the dependency on ``gemma-zds-client``.
* Vendored ``decorator-include``, as it is not maintained anymore.
* Updated dependencies to drop ``setuptools``.
* [#3878] Updated some dependencies after the Django 4.2 upgrade.
* Switched to Docker Compose V2 in CI, as V1 was removed from Github Ubuntu images.
* Moved EOL changelog to archive.
* Ordered changelog entries by version instead of date in archive.
* Added feature to log flaky tests in CI.
* Documented versioning policy change.
* Used ``uv`` to install dependencies in Docker build.
* Improved release process documentation.
* [#3878] Updated docs dependencies.
* Added PR checklist template.

2.6.5 (2024-04-24)
==================

Bugfix release

> * [#4165] Require a cookie consent group for analytics.
> * [#4115] Add new source ID and secure GUID.
> * [#4202] Fix Objects API registration v2 crash with hidden fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#4165] A cookie consent group for analytics is now required.
* [#4115] Added new source ID and secure GUID.
* [#4202] Fixed Objects API registration v2 crash with hidden fields.
```

Changelog
=========

2.7.0-alpha.0 (2024-05-03)
==========================

This is an alpha release, meaning it is not finished yet or suitable for production use.

Detailed changes
----------------

**New features**

* Improved backend validation robustness, mainly by validating new components:

   - [#72] Improved validation for the following components: time, selectboxes, textarea, postcode, bsn, select, checkbox,
     currency, signature, map, cosign, password, iban and licenseplate.

* Submission registration:

>    - [#4031] Added a warning for the Objects API registration configuratoin when switching back to the legacy configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - [#4031] Added a warning for the Objects API registration configuration when switching back to the legacy configuration.
```
